Refactor the MMC documentation (#114)
TexasInstruments/processor-sdk-doc: source/linux/Foundational_Components/U-Boot/UG-Memory.rst

   to boot. To do this, perform the following steps:

   .. code-block:: console

      => usb start
      => setenv mmcroot /dev/sda2 ro
      => run mmcargs
      => run bootcmd_usb

   The USB drivers in Linux kernel need to be built-in (default modules). The
   configuration changes are:

   .. code-block:: Kconfig

      CONFIG_USB=y
      CONFIG_USB_XHCI_HCD=y
      CONFIG_USB_XHCI_PCI=y
      CONFIG_USB_XHCI_PLATFORM=y
      CONFIG_USB_STORAGE=y
      CONFIG_USB_DWC3=y
      CONFIG_USB_DWC3_HOST=y
      CONFIG_USB_DWC3_KEYSTONE=y
      CONFIG_EXTCON=y
      CONFIG_EXTCON_USB_GPIO=y
      CONFIG_SCSI_MOD=y
      CONFIG_SCSI=y
      CONFIG_BLK_DEV_SD=y

   The USB should have boot partition of FAT32 format, and rootfs partition
   of EXT4 format. The boot partition must contain the following images:

   - keystone-<platform>-evm.dtb
   - skern-<platform>.bin
   - k2-fw-initrd.cpio.gz
   - zImage

   The rootfs partition contains the filesystem from ProcSDK release package. Extracting
   failes to the rootfs parititon should be done as a root user.

   .. code-block:: console

      $ mkdir /mnt/temp
      $ mount -t ext4 /dev/sdb2 /mnt/temp
      $ cd /mnt/temp

>       $ tar xvf <Linux_Proc_Sdk_Install_DIR>/filesyste/tisdk-server-rootfs-image-k2hk-evm.tar.xz

Reviewer: https://github.com/TexasInstruments/processor-sdk-doc/pull/114#discussion_r1884599522

Reviewer: Also, isn't this missing the `J` switch to actually filter the archive through `xz` ?

Author: Nope, not necessary. AFAIK GNU tar should identify the format on its own, no need for the J flag. This command listed here should work.

SD, eMMC and USB
----------------

The following guide shows how to flash and boot from storage media like the
embedded multimedia card (eMMC), secure digital (SD) card, and USB storage
devices. While this is a step-by-step guide, it is in no way extensive and
does not cover all the per-platform corner-cases. For any  issues/questions
on this guide, please reach out to: `E2E <https://e2e.ti.com//>`__.

MMC
===

.. _uboot-listing-mmc-devices:

Listing MMC devices

> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer 2: Any particular reason to jump from == (sections) used for MMC to ^^^ (subsubsections) directly?
The ideal flow should be `#   ==>  *   ==>   =   ==>   -   ==>   ^   ==> " `

https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/basics.html#sections

Usually in all the platforms there will be two MMC instances of which one
would be SD and the other would be eMMC. The index of them can vary from
one class of platforms to the other. For a given platform, the device
number (mmcdev) can be found in the following way:

.. code-block:: console

   => mmc list
   sdhci@fa10000: 0 (eMMC)
   sdhci@fa00000: 1 (SD)

This (mmcdev) will be needed when flashing to the MMC device in the next
sections.

.. _uboot-selecting-mmc-device-and-partitions:

Selecting MMC device and paritions

> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer 2: Same comment of section depth as above

To selct an MMC device in u-boot, the :command:`mmc dev` could be used.
The general syntax is:

.. code-block:: console

   => mmc dev [dev] [partition]

The following lists examples and their explanation for each MMC device
and partitions according to the example in: :ref:`uboot-listing-mmc-devices`.

.. code-block:: console

   => mmc dev 0 0 # select eMMC user HW partition (UDA)
   => mmc dev 0 1 # select eMMC boot0 HW partition
   => mmc dev 0 2 # select eMMC boot1 HW partition
   => mmc dev 1 1 # select SD "boot" partition
   => mmc dev 1 1 # select SD "root" partition

View MMC partition contents
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This section assumes an SD card or eMMC was prepared previously to
boot the device.

For eMMC, typically, the device ships without a partition table
If there is a need to create a partition in UDA (to flash the rootfs),
please go to: :ref:`create partition in uda <create-partitions-in-emmc-uda-from-linux>`

> and format the partition: :ref:`formatting eMMC partition <formatting-mmc-partition-from-linux>`

Author: I realize it sill inherit the section title, I liked giving a shortname but sure can do either way

         => fatload mmc 1 ${loadaddr} sysfw.itb
         => mmc write ${loadaddr} 0x3600 0x800

   eMMC layout
   ^^^^^^^^^^^

   .. ifconfig:: CONFIG_part_variant in ('AM64X')

      .. code-block:: console

                     boot0 partition (8 MB)                        user partition
            0x0+----------------------------------+      0x0+-------------------------+
               |     tiboot3.bin (1 MB)           |         |                         |
         0x800+-----------------------------------+         |                         |
               |       tispl.bin (2 MB)           |         |                         |
         0x1800+----------------------------------+         |        rootfs           |
               |       u-boot.img (4 MB)          |         |                         |
         0x3800+----------------------------------+         |                         |
               |      environment (128 KB)        |         |                         |
         0x3900+----------------------------------+         |                         |
               |   backup environment (128 KB)    |         |                         |

>          0x3A00+----------------------------------+         +-------------------------+

Reviewer: So, I've seen sphinx parse these correctly in the past, but the spec actually says the first line of content in the code block dictates the indentation depth for the rest of the directive.

It may prevent future issues if you put the legend on the right side of the box and move the titles to the bottom of the code block.

   .. code-block:: console

      $ sudo dfu-util -R -a <dfu-target> -D <binary>

   To see what are the dfu-targets, on the host machine run: :command:`sudo dfu-util -l`

   .. code-block:: console

      $ sudo dfu-util -l
      dfu-util 0.9
      Found DFU: [0451:6165] ver=0223, devnum=32, cfg=1, intf=0, path="1-10", alt=6, name="sysfw.itb.raw", serial="0000000000000591"
      Found DFU: [0451:6165] ver=0223, devnum=32, cfg=1, intf=0, path="1-10", alt=5, name="u-env.raw", serial="0000000000000591"
      Found DFU: [0451:6165] ver=0223, devnum=32, cfg=1, intf=0, path="1-10", alt=4, name="u-boot.img.raw", serial="0000000000000591"
      Found DFU: [0451:6165] ver=0223, devnum=32, cfg=1, intf=0, path="1-10", alt=3, name="tispl.bin.raw", serial="0000000000000591"
      Found DFU: [0451:6165] ver=0223, devnum=32, cfg=1, intf=0, path="1-10", alt=2, name="tiboot3.bin.raw", serial="0000000000000591"
      Found DFU: [0451:6165] ver=0223, devnum=32, cfg=1, intf=0, path="1-10", alt=1, name="rootfs", serial="0000000000000591"
      Found DFU: [0451:6165] ver=0223, devnum=32, cfg=1, intf=0, path="1-10", alt=0, name="rawemmc", serial="0000000000000591"

>    and transfer from the host to the device each binary:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Then transfer each desired binary from the host to the device:
```

   Reference manual.
   - Connect the USB Mass storage device with the bootloader images and boot up
   the board.

.. ifconfig:: CONFIG_part_variant in ('AM65X')

   Booting to U-Boot prompt from USB storage is supported. The following are the
   steps to be followed:

   - Build the bootloader images using default "am65x_evm_r5_usbmsc_defconfig"
   and "am65x_evm_a53_defconfig" configs files. The configs required for USB
   MSC boot are already enabled. For instructions to build the bootloader
   images please refer to :ref:`Build-U-Boot-label`.
   - Create a FAT32 partition with boot flag enabled on the USB storage device.
   - Copy the bootloader images(tiboot3.bin, sysfw.itb, tispl.bin, u-boot.img)
   into the above created partition.
   - Set the boot mode switches to usb host mode by referring to the Technical
   Reference manual.
   - Connect the USB Mass storage device with the bootloader images and boot up
   the board.

.. ifconfig:: CONFIG_part_variant in ('J722S')

   Booting to U-Boot prompt from USB storage is supported. The following are the
   steps to be followed:
   - In U-Boot the USB controller can be used in either host or peripheral mode.

>    For booting to linux kernel from USB storage device, the USB port is to be set
>    as host.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   For booting to linux kernel from USB storage device, the USB port should be in
   host mode.
```

   - By default, USB0 is set to peripheral mode. Change this from peripheral to
   host mode.
   - Build the bootloader images using the default "j722s_evm_r5_defconfig" and
   the config fragment "j722s_evm_r5_usbmsc.config" and "j722s_evm_a53_defconfig"
   configs files. The configs required for USB MSC boot are already enabled. For
   instructions to build the bootloader images please refer to :ref:`Build-U-Boot-label`.
   - Create a FAT32 partition with boot flag enabled on the USB storage device.
   - Copy the bootloader images(tiboot3.bin, tispl.bin, u-boot.img) into the above
   created partition.

>    - Set the boot mode switches to USB host boot mode (Refer to  **Initialization**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Set the boot mode switches to USB host boot mode (Refer to the **Initialization**
```

         the image. This can be done by making the following changes in the
         configuration used for building kernel:

         .. code-block:: Kconfig

            CONFIG_USB_COMMON=y
            CONFIG_USB=y
            CONFIG_USB_XHCI_HCD=y
            CONFIG_USB_XHCI_PCI=y
            CONFIG_USB_XHCI_PLATFORM=y
            CONFIG_USB_STORAGE=y
            CONFIG_USB_DWC3=y
            CONFIG_USB_DWC3_AM62=y
            CONFIG_USB_GADGET=y
            CONFIG_TYPEC=y
            CONFIG_TYPEC_TPS6598X=y
            CONFIG_USB_ROLE_SWITCH=y

      **Copying the images to USB storage device**

      - After making the required changes mentioned above, build the kernel,
      device tree file and modules. The USB Mass storage device should have the
      rootfs in the second partition with ext4 file system. The following images
      should be in /boot/ directory:

         - Linux kernel **Image**
         - Device tree (dtb) file

      **Run usb_boot**

      - During the boot, cancel the autoboot at U-Boot and run the following command
      at u-boot prompt:

      .. code-block:: console

>          => run usb_boot

Reviewer: Content associated with list entries should be indented to fall under them.

   to boot. To do this, perform the following steps:

   .. code-block:: console

      => usb start
      => setenv mmcroot /dev/sda2 ro
      => run mmcargs
      => run bootcmd_usb

   On K2H/K/E/L EVMs, the USB drivers in Linux kernel need to be built-in
   (default modules). The configuration changes are:

   .. code-block:: Kconfig

      CONFIG_USB=y
      CONFIG_USB_XHCI_HCD=y
      CONFIG_USB_XHCI_PCI=y
      CONFIG_USB_XHCI_PLATFORM=y
      CONFIG_USB_STORAGE=y
      CONFIG_USB_DWC3=y
      CONFIG_USB_DWC3_HOST=y
      CONFIG_USB_DWC3_KEYSTONE=y
      CONFIG_EXTCON=y
      CONFIG_EXTCON_USB_GPIO=y
      CONFIG_SCSI_MOD=y
      CONFIG_SCSI=y
      CONFIG_BLK_DEV_SD=y

   The USB should have boot partition of FAT32 format, and rootfs partition
   of EXT4 format. The boot partition must contain the following images:

   - keystone-<platform>-evm.dtb
   - skern-<platform>.bin
   - k2-fw-initrd.cpio.gz
   - zImage

   where <platform>=k2hk, k2e, k2l

   The rootfs partition contains the filesystem from ProcSDK release package.

   .. code-block:: console

      $ mkdir /mnt/temp
      $ mount -t ext4 /dev/sdb2 /mnt/temp
      $ cd /mnt/temp

>       $ tar xvf <Linux_Proc_Sdk_Install_DIR>/filesyste/tisdk-server-rootfs-image-k2hk-evm.tar.xz

Reviewer: Should use sudo or other method to ensure original file permissions and user/group are preserved.

Author: Done

      $ cd /mnt
      $ umount temp

   Set up the following u-boot environment variables:

   .. code-block:: console

      => setenv args_all 'setenv bootargs console=ttyS0,115200n8 rootwait'
      => setenv args_usb 'setenv bootargs ${bootargs} rootdelay=3 rootfstype=ext4 root=/dev/sda2 rw'
      => setenv get_fdt_usb 'fatload usb 0:1 ${fdtaddr} ${name_fdt}'
      => setenv get_kern_usb 'fatload usb 0:1 ${loadaddr} ${name_kern}'
      => setenv get_mon_usb 'fatload usb 0:1 ${addr_mon} ${name_mon}'
      => setenv init_fw_rd_usb 'fatload usb 0:1 ${rdaddr} ${name_fw_rd}; setenv filesize <hex_len>; run set_rd_spec'
      => setenv init_usb 'usb start; run args_all args_usb'
      => setenv boot usb
      => saveenv
      => boot

>    **Note:**: <hex\_len> must be at least the hex size of the k2-fw-initrd.cpio.gz file size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   **Note:**: ``<hex_len>`` must be at least the hex size of the k2-fw-initrd.cpio.gz file size.
```

.. ifconfig:: CONFIG_part_family in ('AM335X', 'AM437X', 'AM57X', 'GEN')

   Booting from SD/eMMC from SPL (Single stage or Falcon mode)
   ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

   .. note::

      Falcon mode is not supported on K3 family of devices.

   In this boot mode SPL (first stage bootloader) directly boots the Linux
   kernel. Optionally, in order to enter into U-Boot, reset the board while
   keeping 'c' key on the serial terminal pressed. When falcon mode is
   enabled in U-Boot build (usually enabled by default), :file:`MLO` checks if
   there is a valid :file:`uImage` present at a defined offset. If :file:`uImage`
   is present, it is booted directly. If valid :file:`uImage` is not found,
   :file:`MLO` falls back to checking if the :file:`uImage` exists in a FAT
   partition. If it fails, it falls back to booting :file:`u-boot.img`.

>    Falcon boot uses :file`uImage`. To build the kernel :file:`uImage`, you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Falcon boot uses :file:`uImage`. To build the kernel :file:`uImage`, you
```

      $ sudo dfu-util -D MLO -a MLO
      $ sudo dfu-util -D u-boot.img -a u-boot.img
      $ sudo dfu-util -D dra7-evm.dtb -a spl-os-args
      $ sudo dfu-util -D uImage -a spl-os-image

   raw binaries:

   .. code-block:: console

      $ sudo dfu-util -D MLO -a MLO.raw
      $ sudo dfu-util -D u-boot.img -a u-boot.img.raw
      $ sudo dfu-util -D dra7-evm.dtb -a spl-os-args.raw
      $ sudo dfu-util -D uImage -a spl-os-image.raw

   If the binaries are files in a fat partition, you need to specify their
   name if they differ from the default values ("uImage" and "args"). Note
   that DFU uses the names "spl-os-image" and "spl-os-args", so this step
   is required in the case of DFU. From u-boot prompt

   .. code-block:: console

      => setenv falcon_image_file spl-os-image
      => setenv falcon_args_file spl-os-args
      => saveenv

   Set the environment variable "boot\_os" to 1. From u-boot prompt

   .. code-block:: console

      => setenv boot_os 1
      => saveenv

   Set the board boot from SD (or eMMC respectively) and reset the EVM. The
   SPL directly boots the kernel image from SD (or eMMC).

Steps for working around SD card issues in u-boot

> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer: This section is almost exactly the same as the above section for linux. The only addition is `Increase power cycle period`. May be worth referencing it and just mentioning the new step.

Author: To be honest, I would rather keep the section as it is. The section is not that large and I think there are already to many re-directions on this page

Reviewer: As a reader and reviewer, reiterating the same content over again in something this long is both unnecessary and frustrating.

Author: I think there is a confusion here. The "steps for working around SD card issues in u-boot" is a section specifically for the UG-Memory.rst file which targets u-boot. So we use examples in u-boot.

The "steps for working around SD card issues in Linux" is a section for the MMC-SD.rst which targets Linux, so we use examples with Linux
